So this is M152.
In Bamberg, that's going to standard history, or rather, standard going to identifying prints, called How to Identify Prints.
It's number six.
And there'll be 12 of them.
There'll always be in these mylar folders, which are, I don't want you looking at things through the plastic, but I don't want them to self-destruct when they're not being used or when they're being passed around.
So there'll be 12 of them in mylar.
There'll be a plot sheet.
for the instructor, so that the instructor knows what's going on when he's teaching it.
And when I'm teaching, I guess you may have this.
Oh, that's right.
So this is the chronological thing.
So if I want to know what I've got for the turn into the 18th century, I can go to this.
And these, you see, all refer to packets back there.
So each one of these is a separate packet.
And then I also print this out in Gascoigne order, which is this.
So if I want to collect all of my lithography examples, for example, I can do it that way.
Are you passionate about books?
Or is this, I mean...
I know that goes off into other territory.
Is Clinton passionate about government?
It's what I do.
I don't know if I'm passionate about it or not.
In your talk, for instance, you said that it doesn't bother you when you see this development towards virtual libraries and
books that will show up.
Of course it doesn't, no.
And yet, do you feel that you're teaching an anachronism here?
Are you teaching an anachronism if you're teaching 16th century politics?
I mean, books have had a long run and they're still very much a part of our lives.
But the internet is better for many things.
I don't want to, and look, I mean, ten years ago when I wanted to know what this library had, five years ago when I came, I had to go upstairs and look in the card catalog.
Now I go to the nearest computer.
10 years from now, I'll be able to get plain text to most of the books I want.
That's a hell of a lot better than waiting for Interlibrary at all.
That's better.
Now, it's not the whole story, but I want to know what Henry Bohn was doing and how people read in the 19th century, and I want this copy, and I literally want this copy.
Look at it.
B-O-H-N, Bohn's Standard Library, of course.
And it's where the, it's where the Harvard, it's where the Loeb-Clapps Library picked up, that kind of thing.
I mean, this is a gorgeous copy of an insignificant book, but it's got the publisher's catalog.
He was one of the first to use his endpapers for ads, an idea that didn't take, but it could have.
So what is the approximate year of this?
1850s?
Wow, that's, it is a wonderful, 1863.
1883.
No, don't believe it.
It is.
It's just a later edition.
I just have stronger glasses than you do.
That's a real throwback for an edition.
That's the binding of the 50s.
I never bothered to change.
They had them, which explains why they were able to run out of business, I suppose.
These are books.
These are tools, again, to go back to a word you used earlier.
These are tools.
That's for you.
Oh.
So when I'm teaching along and somebody asks for something, these all refer to the packets.
So they say, well, what is China paper?
And I say, wait a minute.
And we pull up ML18.
So where do you go searching for all this stuff?
Well, it's 25 years.
All right, I've got 400 former students, half of them, to send me something every once in a while.
I mean, it isn't quite true that never a day goes by without something arrives, but certainly never a week goes by without something arrives, and usually it's every day something comes in.
Now, it can be totally insignificant, it can be this.
For example, these are recent gifts.
From the gentleman who showed me around.
He's totally told, because he pointed at the mouth of it.
He's just back from England.
And you know what it is.
It's the credit of that plate.
This is from Frick.
So this enterprise really does depend to a great extent on your friends.
These are things depicted in line, which is just fine with me.
They're very early 19th century.
prints that intend to imitate chalk drawings, and you do it so well that I'm not at all sure how the color was done.
It's a stiff engraving, but I'm having great difficulty trying to figure out how they were printed, which is why they're out there, because I'm still studying them.
They've been written about someplace, but there are heaps of them.
And I'm just pleased, now mind you, they also send me some stuff that I have no use for at all.
Well, that's okay.
You'd rather have the opportunity to pass on it than to...
What the stuff here is, we'll deal with that later.
This is how it works.
Books come in, and these are books going into reserve.
I don't want them now, but I don't want to throw them away either.
So they go downstairs.
I have, you see this wall here?
Yep.
You see how much space there is there?
Okay, multiply that by 12, and that's how much storage space I have downstairs under it.
So, and most of the stuff downstairs, there's some boxes like this.
And the boxes just accumulate.
For different purposes, this is one.
We're working towards a show on dust jackets.
And so these, how do you like that for a dust jacket?
Zoom that.
But there are also a lot of things like this, for example.
You know about these?
No.
In the 40s, it was felt that certain dust jackets were a little bit raunchy for certain parts of the country, so the book was published in two dust jackets.
I've never heard of it before.
I've got dozens of examples.
I'd never heard of that before.
This one, obviously, is more suitable for Peoria.
So you would really collect this book for the dust jacket?
I'm not going to read the book.
Obviously, but it's interesting because of the fact that it was printed.
Well, this was given to me.
by Candace Frosby, a local bookseller.
We'll be at dinner tonight, if you can ask.
So it's Hercules, the big green story.
I didn't know the books.
She was the one who told me and gave it to us as a present because she knew it was kind of worth it.
Who's the author of that?
It's by George Kirgo.
A-I-R-G-O.
Yeah, okay.
You depend on the right day for double bus jackets.
Here's the front shorts.
Go back again.
Oh, that's so funny.
It's wonderful.
How many of these do you have?
Well, right here.
I've got about four of them.
I've never heard of them before.
Did you know about these before?
Not until Candy Crafty gave me one.
And then, of course, she started looking for them.
That's my nephew, Albert.
I leave.
the island, what I won off Maddie, Hagen, and a poker game?
You could do that today.
Well, maybe you could, yeah.
What's the year on this, just out of curiosity?
They tend to be late 40s, early 50s.
Very interesting.
That's British.
1969.
And a pretty well-known British publisher.
Certainly.
Oh, yeah, sure.
I don't know.
Wonderful.
Madame Geneva, is that one too?
No, that's you.
Jane Lane, what a great name, Jane Lane.
Well, we're working towards a show on the rise of the author's dust jacket biography and photograph.
And there's a phrase here,
Her first book was the last accepted by a publisher and condition that Ms.
Lane paid for the production.
To do this, she worked in a house for consumptive, scrubbed floors, did good parts on stage.
That's right.
So that's what that's for.
Or this, for example.
This is pretty nice.
This is a nice little lot of books, isn't it?
Oh, yeah.
You go downstairs and you see the other 20 boxes of this working towards the show.
I love it.
We're doing another show, which is probably next summer.
Its working title is, are you sure this is a good idea?
Or if that idea is in publishing?
Or ideas that didn't work?
Like, for instance.
Like this.
Okay.
It's a novel.
As I tell my students, we're very conservative in how we read.
We don't like books in the shapes that we're not used to.
It's clearly not a success.
But what's amusing about it?
We talk about the durability of the book.
This novel comes with its own record, which none of us can play because... It's 78.
No, it's 33.
It's 33.
But I haven't been able to play a record for about three years.
I've got a turntable that I only hitched up.
Bad idea.
Mm-hmm.
Well, but how would they know, see?
It was early 90s, wasn't it?
There was 90s?
It was... No.
Can't be.
That's a bad, very bad idea.
Nobody... I paid on it.
Late 80s, isn't it?
Here's your copyright page.
Copyright 1993.
Jesus.
Bad idea.
Stupid.
Not even bad.
Really stupid.
Uh...
Same book, same edition, same printing, brand new.
Why?
Do you know?
Sure.
Why?
Market share.
It probably came in a box.
It was on the floor.
And probably two other colors as well, which, of course, I have to collect.
And then I have to get the box that came in.
You've seen that kind of display thing.
Yeah, but not for hardcovers.
It's very rare for hardcovers.
There's one other, and that was the biography of Norman...
General Norman and Schwarzkopf.
Schwarzkopf.
And you know what?
It had the two sides of his face.
That's right, yes.
And also the one Jeffrey, what's his name, who did the O.J.
Simpson look.
It's black and white and one, and one is white and black.
So they really did two different... And I'm sure it's... It looks like the same, so I don't have two of them.
It's too bad I didn't... I had to review copies of them when I passed them along.
I buy all of those, I see.
Well, I have... I'll give an hour for it.
Let me see if I... But it's what?
I'd love to have a reference.
Yeah.
It was probably the best Simpson book, actually, was the guy that covered it for The New Yorker.
More of the ideas.
Okay.
Little Man, Little Women.
That's all right.
Two novels in one?
Mm-hmm.
All right.
But what do you think of this pairing?
That's absurd.
Yeah?
It's a bad idea.
Yeah, but you think that's going to hurt the sales of the book?
I'm doing an exhibition on bad ideas in publishing.
No, but I don't imagine anybody who wants Uncle Tom's Cabin wants Tom Brown's School Days.
Do you?
No.
No, that's true.
Bad idea.
Okay.
This is early 50s, and it's Grosset and Dunlap's attempt to do something that is neither hardbound nor paper field.
They call these today French... French...
Yeah, but basically what they call it is trade paperback.
In 1950, there weren't any trade paperbacks.
That's beginning to happen.
So this is the American publishing industry groping its way towards the trade paperback.
And at the time, a paperback meant 25 cents.
Basically, they're all the same price.
So that often they don't even have prices on them because everybody knows.
And this is three times the expense of the paperback
but half the price of the book, like a quarter of the price of the book, which would have been $2.50 or $3.
Well, it didn't work.
It isn't the way it went.
Now, this is basically you deciding that idea, which I think is very good.
It's excellent.
Well, no, I mean, it's history decided.
This is an uncommon format.
You've never seen a book like this before, published in America in the 1950s.
Clearly, the American publishing industry decided this wasn't the way to go.
The American consumer decided the way to go was this book, but without this.
Published like this, and you still charge the equivalent of 75 cents.
Unless it was a prescient move that we don't know about either, because we do have the trade paperback now.
Indeed.
But this was groping towards it.
Oh, brand new.
A good American.
This is what you see on the shelf.
Stupid music.
Ever to be so, first and foremost range of the internet, this means that you are now actively participating in a revolution of promises to forever change our offers and that readers meet.
This is brand new, and the title of this is The Good American by Ted Flicker, right?
Right.
It's nonsense.
So you go to the website.
This is the entire website.
There are no buttons.
You're kidding.
And it's, what's the word?
www.com.
Good American Day hyphen American dot com.
Yeah.
And so that's all they give you there?
That's the total website.
Thanks to the thousands of you who have given us your support, we have run out of books.
As you read this, the very last copies of The Good American are being shipped from our warehouse, but we cannot figure it out.
As now, we hopefully, like you, await further developments.
What does that mean?
If they're the publisher or not, they just go print more.
Ted Flicker.
It's a bad idea.
I think so, only because we've never heard of it before.
I'll get you some bad ideas.
I get a lot of review books.
I get tons of them, you know.
See, it's good.
I know what you're looking for now.
You'd be surprised.
We're working towards another show.
What can you do with endpapers?
Nice.
Oh, lovely.
A little crazy, I think.
Nice.
Clever.
How to get color printing without exactly having color printing.
In the beginning, there were mistakes.
The paper has fallen.
It should be like this.
Yep.
Well, that's a publishing error.
This is a show on dust jackets.
I see.
I'm sorry, this is a show on endpapers.
It's very expensive to do that.
And in the book club, by God, they did still another picture, obviously.
But what's going on here?
Did they intend to illustrate the book and then can the illustrations and have them all left over?
They had extras.
There seemed to be a suspicious number of illustrations.
Well, it's just interesting.
Yeah.
Without knowing anything else about it.
Right.
It's a teacher's desk copy.
Okay, sure.
These are the ones that they give them with the hope that they'll also come on.
It struck me as being interesting.
It's an example of what you can use an editor for.
Sure.
Absolutely.
As an ad, as a selling tool, as a marketing tool.
And so the Bone Library then goes in too.
So it'll be an interesting show.
Yeah.
And so we're, as I tell my students, we're container-oriented rather than content-oriented.
So that is going on here.
But this kind of stuff people give us, they know, of course, that we collect fortunes with these fortunes.
so that somebody's just sent their summer's work.
Actually, we have a much larger collection of our own, which he knows.
But ours are Charlottesville fortunes, and he thought that it would be interesting to see how they are different from Michigan fortunes, which is very different.
We maintain a pretty good collection of videotapes on bookish subjects.
That looks very interesting.
The book of Kells, I noticed.
The influence of history on the art of bookbinding in France.
Sounds like a stretch in terms of a thesis, too.
Take a look at those.
You have books apart constantly for... This book is incomplete.
Oh, so it's incomplete.
And look at the binding, which is a self-destructing binding.
This is not a book that people are exactly going to read, you know.
If I rip it apart, I will put 12 leaves into my typography packets
So people who wanted to teach text and gloss would have those.
I would put 12 leaves into the paper packets, chronologically arranged, so people teaching the history of paper, and 12 leaves to pass around is infinitely more useful in class than one account of the whole book.
Sure.
Of and otherwise, and I would certainly use 12 of these in the illustration packets because they're superb woodcuts.
But in fact, I felt that the book just...
well you see it's under 1824 i'm sorry it's in 1524 right which must be the day of the book uh well i think the woodcocks are earlier than that uh the blocks are cut about 1510. uh not quite certainly not quite an incunable but but old oh right i got a lot of little books here and a lot of valuable ones although i don't want to i don't advertise that very heavily uh and some pretty ones too as you can see here
Those are beautiful.
Those are aquatics.
Isn't that wonderful?
Nice.
But, you know, I mean, this is for individual students to play with.
When I'm teaching, I'll go here.
And you can see it.
These
and medium are my Accra tent, each and every 12 individual examples in each of these, is a medium, then the Accra tent here, 17, which is these.
Then there'll be medium, large, and large over there.
So then I will find my sheet here on my occasion.
Well, tell me... You see, these are my aquatint.
Four folders I've got to play with.
Not as many as I'd like, but enough.
And the trick is, this is my 12th magic number, I know there are 12.
They wouldn't be in there if they weren't.
So I know that I can teach up to 24 people, or 22 people, which I never teach as many as I teach.
I restrict my own class actually to 11 because I want to talk to my own, and I want each one of them to have one.
So I teach at the summer in this room.
I admitted 11 students and turned away 40 this summer.
So I'm teaching the course twice this winter to catch up.
It's the first time we've had rare book school in the winter.
The concept of rare book school is 180 degrees out from this, isn't it?
And where the container is the most important thing.
A rare book school is a whole container.
I mean, of course, I teach this illustration process.
At a rare book school?
Yeah.
When I say this is wonderful, I don't mean it's a beautiful print.
I mean, it's a wonderful example of a process called Nicholas Piccolo.
Look here.
That's fine.
You need to see something.
This is great.
Come on.
So Rare Book School is basically an extension of this then?
These learnings are basically made for him.
Welcome to the Bowlers of the Library.
So Rare Book School is not on the bottom level of the library.
You're on the fourth level.
I think those people are teachers of Norse.
Again, book binding structure 1500-1800.
This is what he teaches you.
Okay?
So, I mean, whatever they are, they're his books.
He's the only one that uses these.
They're used one week a year.
I don't even know what's in these boxes.
I got the books for him.
When a book comes in, remember I said it stays there until various instructors look at it.
And after everybody's looked at it and decided they don't want it, then it goes into the general collections, and then I might think about ripping it apart, or giving it away, or doing something.
But he's a wonderful book.
He knows exactly what's in here, because he found it on Friday afternoon.
2, 4, 6, 8.
He's got 10.
Right down this way.
Martin Anthony teaches the history of the book.
He uses a lot of my stuff upstairs because he's teaching generally, but these are his books.
There's Moore Martin.
This is Tim Barrett's paper-making course.
Sue Allen teaches the history of cloth book-finding, and she's all of this.
And then her husband, Deer, teaches design.
This is him.
So this material is just waiting here for your next... Absolutely.
This is the principal collection likeness.
Again, these books are only used for the purpose.
These are used in my format and collation course.
Three students get a box like this every day for a week, and they describe the books.
They learn format, and they write out collations based on these.
And we have all of these cataloging proof sheets for my instructors.
That course has
two principal instructors and six lab instructors.
So it has 36 people, and it's the only large course in their book school.
But there are 10 people who work the course full time during the week that it happens, so that the student-packing ratio is one to three.
But these books will last forever because they're used one week a year.
Now they're junk.
But look, if you give me a 17-volume addition to something, minus four volumes, that's not late.
Okay.
I can put 12 limits of these boxes for each of the 12 different labs that are going to go on.
This is the basement storage area.
I've still got five books to tear off if they happen to have illustrations or they happen to be interesting typography or they happen to be on paper that's worth recording.
So I like to say, you've seen this in my publicity, this is just more of the same, more of the same again.
Bad ideas, yeah?
Well, you see, these are just, it's just another show that is in the process that there's dust jackets.
Are you curator for most of these?
Well, I don't want to be.
So it's another exercise, in other words.
Well, you saw the Armed Services Edition thing.
Well, I need shows that can be done quick.
And the Rise of the Dust Jacket photograph is something that a kid could work up in time to do a show.
He's not going to be able to do a show on John Milton.
I don't have the books to support it.
He hasn't had ten years of study of the field.
But as with the ASE show, I mean, one smart kid can sit down in two months with my boxes.
You see, I just turn the boxes over and say, go do a show.
So it's an exercise.
Yeah, sure.
It's great.
The students curate shows.
Oh, they do.
Do they come up with the ideas?
Are these things you do in concert with each other?
It's a negotiation.
It's something that they're interested in.
I tell them what I've got.
Dan Miller, who did the ASE show, was made from 20th Century American History.
ASC, once more, meaning Armed Services?
You said that, of course, yeah.
Okay.
Very impressive.
Now, you know that all the books are both Cal Show and below are mine, too.
Yes, yes.
I said, I was quite impressed by his book.
And then I said, my God, these aren't all mine.
He said, the ones are both minetaries.
But his own collection is easily that size.
It's pretty interesting, though.
I like the concept.
I asked him what he's going to do with it.
He said, I don't know yet.
And look up there.
God is my laboratory.
Oh, come on.
You're sunning.
I'm looking at the window, and you've got a Tim O'Brien nuclear age, and you're sunning a book.
I want to see how long it takes.
When it started out, it started out younger since all the Christmas marks.
And it takes longer than you think, after nearly a year, after six months anyway.
It's still, of course, yellow is notoriously fugitive.
Look, I mean, this goes on for a long time.
I didn't know the area jacket, but even the red faded, too.
This book was so big.
Morrow had to have a special make of paper for the book.
So that's why we have this here.
And the paperback is in the works.
The book in the 4th edition.
This is a little conservation section.
These books are the same book, and they were originally done the same color.
Cheap, cheap, cheap paper.
That's not fair.
If you take any paper and you put it in 110 degrees long enough... So you did that?
No, I won't get it this way.
But if you put the book on the sunny side of the room, you've got to expect that this is what's going to happen.
But if you keep it on a lower shelf behind your bed, where it's 68 degrees all the time, it's going to feel not good.
If you put a book in the cellar where it's moist, you're going to have different kinds of things, mildew and... Well, if it's cold enough, you won't get mildew.
It will only happen to be with moist hot.
The best thing for a book is moist cold.
If you look in the English Country House Library on the north side, where it's never been about 60 degrees, it can be 90% humidity in those books that look like they were made yesterday.
But you've got to keep the heat, you've got to keep the temperature up.
And most people don't have the ability to do that because they want to live in nature.
This is one of our major donors, and he buys a whole collection to get a single document, and he's got the rest.
And so that what I'm teaching, oh, then I know what a Frank is.
Well, then I know what a Frank is.
Well, then I know.
Yeah.
So here are Franks, both manuscripts and printages.
Dr. Kennedy's Frank.
Sure.
Oh.
Yeah, I'm sure it's just a form card or something.
Yeah, sure.
That kind of thing.
Sure.
What's that word?
Podlocks?
Nothing.
If you haven't seen it, Frank, it's nice to see one.
And occasionally, and Ken knew this was going to happen, there were some things there that I don't think he would have given me, but the stuff came in 25 boxes.
Received the 17th of December, 1808 of John
Chestnut, $750 in full for three Negro slaves named Clay, Paddy, and their son, Sam.
Amazing.
Isn't it nice?
It's so routine, isn't it?
What happened is somebody died, and this is somebody buying them from the executors.
Yeah, that's a very important piece of that.
Right.
It's common housewives around here, but let me tell you, it shuts my classroom off.
I've got two black kids in my morning class.
This university has got hundreds of documents like this.
Now imagine the mechanics of getting one out to show to a class, and then compare it with what I've got, and you see why I do what I do.
That's a bill of sale.
I'm surprised Ken passed that on.
African-American collectors would be very interested in that.
Probably small potatoes compared to what he was actually handling.
He dies.
It's out of order.
It was in the process.
Rondell buys it because he knows it's got an X in it.
So he buys it, and his staff goes through and tries to pull out the other stuff.
Well, it gets to a point where it isn't worth the money it's taking, so people decide to look out later.
Ten years goes by.
You can stick a look into the boxes over there.
Send it to Terry.
Send it to Terry, exactly.
But look, I mean, and light it off, probably, too.
Which is fine.
Which is great.
My manuscript collection goes back to the 14th century.
Oh, and there's some fabulous things here.
Again, we're in Del Seno.
This, for example, is one of everybody's favorites.
I can find it.
Most of these are just scraps, but they're 14th century scraps.
Would you say that you have anything here at research depth, or is it largely specimen depth?
Well, if it's at research depth, it's really there only by accident.
There is one thing in here, if I can find it.
There's a contract between the citizens of Siena and the mercenaries they have just hired for their defense.
That's crazy.
Now that's what Albert Gerwin-Lady teaches.
Because I can't even read the alphabet.
It's on level in the box.
Look at that.
Is that vellum?
Yeah.
How old?
1334s I was looking at?
Yeah.
It's an Italian contract for the defense of the city.
That's all I knew when it came to me.
And look, it might be worth a couple hundred bucks.
I don't know.
Nobody's done any research on it, you see, so you don't know.
I mean, Alba Derwey, who could read it, said it's Siena.
That's the worst I knew that, because I can't read the alphabet here well enough to pick out the word Siena in the contract, and I bet you you can't either.
No, don't even bother.
And I read that.
because that was done months later, and there's somebody's... I mean, not exactly speaking off the record, but let's get right down to it.
This is the best place of this kind that everyone wants anywhere, and everybody will tell you that.
It's not the largest or best collection of anything, but it's the most accessible collection that we've got.
As I say, like that slave thing, I mean, there's nothing unusual about that.
You buy one for $55, or maybe a little more, a hundred bucks.
And what I'm trying to do is, I mean, look, this is not exactly teaching on the internet, is it?
I mean, it's not an efficient way to teach, but it's a better way to teach.
Sophie Tucker, I've been rich and I've been poor, and it's just better.
I mean, it's better to have these documents in your hand.
You see students picking them up and their fingers start to shake.
And that's what I want.
I mean, it's what high-class education is all about.
That's what they get at Harvard, too.
How did you develop the idea for this?
What were you teaching me?
I mean, is this?
Okay.
So I start out.
I got a Ph.D.
in English, 1970, Columbia.
In 1970, there is about to be no work of any kind whatsoever for white male 18th century English specialists.
So while I'm wondering what the hell I'm going to do with my life, with my brand new PhD, one of my dissertation sponsors had a heart attack.
He taught in a library school, and I was invited to take over one of his courses at no notice.
I suddenly found myself teaching humanities reference literature, a subject in which I was basically completely without any knowledge whatsoever.
Thank you.
to a bunch of graduate students in the library school.
One thing led to another.
I was invited to take over the rest of Alan Hazen's courses, one of which was a course in descriptive bibliography.
And the year after that, 71, 72, 73, I was offered a full-time appointment.
in the library school with a brief to develop a rare book program, a subject in which I yet had very little knowledge.
But I had done my dissertation on the 18th century loan and book trade in the English department.
And my biography is on the internet.
Just look at my webpage, which is old books.
You know, you've got the address.
I don't know if you ever looked at my webpage, but there's the equivalent of a nine-page book.
resume for me with a prose somewhere.
Then don't bother.
So there I was at Columbia with a brief to set up a program in rare books, and there really wasn't any training for rare books in those days.
You get a library degree, but it was assumed that you either brought to the library degree your doctorate, and you learned technical stuff in library school about cataloging and such like, and then you went off and got a job where you used
your subject expertise.
Or, um, if it was a job like rare book cataloging where you really didn't need to learn the rules.
And, uh, I mean, I have one, I think, true genius, as I've told you before, self-promotion.
And I began, uh,
advertising the fact that Columbia was offering a formal program for training in rare books, the first astonishing thing that happened is that would-be antiquarian booksellers began applying for it.
And you didn't expect that at all, by the way?
It crossed my mind.
And now Jeffrey Mansevice, you must know, ask him.
He's a former student.
He went to Columbia because he was interested in training in rare books, not because he was interested in getting a library degree, which he has.
Not on purpose, but simply by completing his courses, he ended up with one.
Or Bruce McKittrick, if you run up against him.
Or David Warrington in the Harvard Law Library, who spent a long time working for Rendell.
Did Rob Moulin-Miller go?
No.
Never did.
He worked for his father.
I didn't know how he got into the very last year.
was a successful businessman who retired and set up a railroad business.
They're rich, real rich, by standards of most of us.
Rich and is rich, in other words.
Wrong.
Rob's got a 30-room house on Summit Avenue in St.
Falls.
That's pretty rich.
Why is it that I sense that?
I don't know.
Well, I mean, he's already a very senior figure with the ILAB.
I mean, at such a young age.
And he really is dealing in some pretty interesting books.
He's a nice guy.
And he's a very nice guy.
He's older than he looks.
He must be in his 40s.
Really?
Yeah.
He looks like a baby face.
I've known him for 20 years, so he pretty much has to be.
What is this?
This is great.
It's just seltzer water.
Seltzer water.
Wonderful.
So to Columbia.
You know, I did my work, and I taught my service courses.
And I began teaching, and it occurred to me that I didn't have anything to teach with.
I mean, I got sick of teaching from slides.
And there was a big variable library at Columbia, but it wasn't very easy to use.
It was upstairs, and there was no teaching room in Special Collections.
There was no problem at all.
You could send any individual student out to look at any book, and they'd show it to them gladly.
But they did not want to see me with a glass.
Well, it wasn't the world's most public access-oriented department either, to be sure.
See, it's funny how you came into this.
You came in in a very different way.
I mean, you almost by accident come into the antiquarian book world, don't you?
I've never... Had you not trained as a librarian, either?
No, I never worked a day in my life in the library as a bookseller.
But I know something about the physical book.
And look, what I am in this business, I'm Marcus Welby, only not as good-tempered.
I'm the GP, but I'm a good GP, and I know
You've got troubles.
I know the specialist to send you to.
And I really do think that people will agree that the Rare Book School faculty is good beyond hope.
I mean, some of these people are teaching in an environment.
This is like Chopin teaching scales.
People say that in evaluations.
I am embarrassed to be taught by somebody with this distinction.
I do not deserve instruction in this quality.
And when Albert Dirillet is teaching you how to identify Sienna in a manuscript like that, since he is probably the best-known codicologist of his age, which is 60-something.
I mean, codicologists like conductors seem to live forever.
Now, what is it that Jake does in Colorado?
Is that similar?
No.
I'm not going to quote you.
I'm just curious.
What Jake does is excellent.
But the school that trains scuba divers in Florida is going to be very different from the school that trains mountain climbers in Idaho.
That's all.
Jake has 80 people for a week every year.
I have 300 people over a four-week period.
So I'm five times the size.
That's the first difference.
The second difference is that he has a bunch of talking heads that take turns addressing 80 people.
I know I've been one of them, and they're very good people.
At Gray Book School, my talking heads address no more than 12 people at a time.
Jake's course is about how to sell
used books, used and antiquarian books, but mostly used, really.
It's OP.
It's called the OP and Used Book Seminar.
I don't think rare is even in the title.
And it's very good.
The people who go there are people who want to be used booksellers.
Yours is more of a scholarly approach, I think, as well.
Because it's a professional or even a business approach.
When you come here for a week to take
medieval and early Renaissance bookbinding structure, for example.
This is an intellectual pursuit as much as anything else.
Bookbinders and conservators and booksellers take Nicholas Piccolo's course all the time because they're selling books.
His course is European bookbinding's 1500-1800, but he never mentions decorations.
He's interested in structure.
If it's bound this way, it's German.
If it's got that kind of a head cap, it's Italian.
If it's on goat skin rather than sheep skin, then it's almost certainly Belgian, that kind of thing.
And dealers take this because if they know it's a Belgian binding as opposed to a binding, then it's worth more.
And Nicholas's course is sold out.
Nicholas has offered that course 17 times in the past 10 years, and every one of them is sold out.
teaching it again this winter because I'm trying to catch up from my backlog since the point of this operation is to get people into courses not to keep them out of it and I'm embarrassed by because most of the people are working professionals if you have a six person waiting list it'll be a 12 person waiting list next year because the conditions that produced 18 people for 12 places will go on doing it so now I mean I feel like a coat of paint would be fine
I am maintaining one of the country's principal exhibition programs and the only one in the country that deals with undergraduates at all.
So far as I know, Dan Miller's show is the only serious undergraduate show done in this country in 15 years.
So where is that?
Where is his?
Dan Miller did the ASC show, the Armed Services Edition show.
Now, have you read his piece on it, that autobiographical piece that I sent you?
Oh, the piece you did send me, okay, yes, I did.
All right, I'm sorry.
He was talking about how to do a show and how he learned how to do a show?
Yep, yep, yep.
Well, you can't have undergraduates do major shows.
They're like mayflies.
In the first place, most librarians don't know any undergraduates.
And when they do, they're people they've hired to work in their departments, but they weren't hired to do exhibitions.
They're hired to photocopy.
And so it's hard to identify a promising or interested undergraduate and to negotiate.
Now, I'm not a member, I'm not a library employee.
I don't have, as you know, because I'm a university professor, I don't have any job description.
I can do what I please.
My only formal requirement is a one-page annual report.
But I've got students, and I'm in a library, so that I can encourage students to do shows, simply because they're interested in I am.
And Miller did that as an independent study course.
While I'm a professor type, I can conduct independent studies.
And I want to develop
a systematic program where my very lively undergraduates, as you saw from Darby, who's a charming young woman, I'm going to see another batch at 2 o'clock.
I wanted them to do shows.
I mean, this is what you can do for people.
Miller's show was up during his graduation, so we had a reception here so his parents and friends could see it at graduation time.
Because he did the show, he got a job working as a writer.
And he wanted to go bum around the country for a summer, but he was careful to apply only for jobs that he couldn't get to please his parents, which was a mistake, because he got it.
When he was a senior year, a fourth year student, he applied to every major
really major graduate program in 20th century American history.
I didn't get into any of them because he was competing with people like him now.
He's not 22 without any credentials.
He's 24.
He's worked for Kaiser for two years.
He's got a publication.
He's been around.
I gave a speech in the Rotunda.
Well, on top of that,
I maintain that.
I mean, I've got a full-time staff, too.
One full-time and then various volunteers and part-time people for 11 months of the year.
And I get by a more or less systematic program of exploitation of people like Catalato and Bill Royal who come in and volunteer for me.
But volunteering is no joke because what volunteers want is your time.
Cal and I spent several hours yesterday putting these together.
Did he give you one of those yet?
No.
You've got one tonight at dinner.
Take one now so you can put it with your stuff and you don't have to worry about it.
It's the exhibition catalog.
Oh, great.
I asked him if he was doing a catalog.
He said yes.
He said we'll have one tonight.
Yeah, take one and then we'll.
Thank you.
Excellent.
I've got my phone, my stuff.
So what was it that sold Virginia on this?
Did this feed into anything that they had?
Were they historically involved in?
Virginia is a very usual place, obviously.
I mean, this is a very history conscious part of the world, as you know.
And because of the Barrett collection, and thank you very much.
And also because of the McGregor collection, the Barrett collection is in the McGregor room.
It really is one of the principal resources for the study of American literature and history.
Thank you.
It cannot compete with Harvard manuscripts.
And Harvard has the country's principal collection of American literary manuscripts.
But I think Harvard would agree that we have the nation's principal collection of American printed literature.
pretty much acknowledged anything.
Because Harvard and Yale and the public and L.C.
tended to buy the books when they came in and they'd been used up.
Where ours came in, in collector's condition, within the past 30 years.
And Barrett went out and bought new copies of all these books.
Now, this isn't to say that Barrett didn't have manuscripts.
He went from a collection that has the manuscripts of the Leaves of Grass
the manuscript of the Red Badge of Courage, the manuscript of Walden.
He's not all bad.
And Kevin Dell says that when he was first starting in business, Barrett used to buy from him, and a Barrett invoice.
These are monthly invoices, typically with 50 pages.
You know, a letter from Sarah Horn Jewett.
$18.59, $10, that kind of stuff, and people barely read them.
The stuff was so cheap.
It wasn't worth, barely worth selling, although $10 was worth more than it is now.
There was a lot of that.
It was still a steal.
I don't know if she was a canonical author at that particular point either, but, well, she's more now, certainly.
And she wasn't, I think.
But Barrett collected everybody in BAL and a good many people besides.
And that's 300 writers right there.
Well, that was one of his focus.
Yeah.
His focus was to get the second tier.
That's right.
And third and fourth.
He liked multiple coffees.
He liked coffees in good condition.
He liked to describe coffees.
Great.
You'd be interested to know, maybe, that the genius behind my coming here is the same genius behind the E-Tech Center.
It's the associate librarian of this library, and his name is Kendon Stubbs, S-T-U-B-B-S.
He's also the genius who, 20 years ago, was behind the building of the Common Press upstairs.
What was he, Stubbs?
Associate librarian.
He's an inside man, not an outside man.
He was an acting librarian.
Well, Karen Wittenborg, who is the librarian, remember the name, because you'll meet her later, I'm sure.
She's planning to come to the reception and lecture, and she'll come to dinner if she doesn't get a better offer, which means if one of her major donors shows up, then she will disappear, because that's what you do.
She spends three quarters of her time raising money, and has raised, I think, 16 million bucks in the past three years.
How much?
16.
That's pretty good.
When she says she has to go buy somebody dinner, it's not because she thinks it's going to be a better dinner.
But Stubbs works for Wittenborg, and Stubbs is terrific.
He's not a diplomat.
He's not an ambassador.
He's a librarian.
Yeah.
He's very clever.
He's very good.
and he sees entrepreneurial opportunities, and he saw me as one.
Kathy Morgan, the curator of rare books here, went to him, thereby, and we won't say this, obviously, she went right over her boss's head.
Her boss was a bit on the conservative side.
She went over her boss's head and asked Stubbs if he could find money for the university to invite me to come down and explore possibilities.
And so he put up $450 to bring me here.
And export your what, I'm sorry?
What did you say?
And export?
And export possibilities.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
So they brought me down, and I was here for three days, and I met everybody.
Kathy simply made appointments for me with everybody she thought might be interested in my coming here, the dean of the continuing ed school, the head of the library, the associate provost,
And most significant of these, it turned out, the dean of the School of Arts and Sciences, somebody that Kathy had never met and didn't know.
She'd only been here four months herself at the time.
Well, that was Ray Nelson, and Ray Nelson is a book collector.
And Ray had never heard of my program, so he went over and he talked to Paul Collins at Hartwood.
And Paul, who I'd also never met at the time, knew all about them.
And the result was,
that after talking with Nelson for 45 minutes on the spot, he said that he thought that the appropriate place for me to come here would be as a university professor.
And I said, quite honestly, I said, that is aiming too high.
But he said, he said, basically, I don't think so.
But what he meant was,
that the dean of the faculty, powerful though he is, cannot put somebody into a department, and many deans have failed in their attempts to do that.
The only people who can put somebody into a department is the department.
When there's an opening in the English department, neither the president nor the provost nor the board of visitors will have much luck in trying to impose somebody into a department if the department is against it.
But a university professor has no department and theoretically reports directly to the president.
And it is the one kind of professor that the dean and the provost and the president can make quite easily because it doesn't require departmental approval.
On the other hand, you start making very many of them and you've got chaos because it means you've got all these loose cannon floating around who report to nobody and who don't have any services and therefore will have to be dealt with directly out of the president or provost or dean's office.
And when I want a paperclip, I have to go to the dean of the faculty for it.
And because I have no department secretary, I have no department, I have no department chair, and I also, so basically the assumption is with people like me, Richard Rorty is probably the other university professor around here, the philosopher that you might have heard of, and certainly much more distinguished than I am.
You know, he's the kind of guy that gets his picture on the front page of the New York Times Sunday Magazine.
What's his name?
Richard Rorty, R-O-R-T-Y.
He's a philosopher, but he's interested in pragmatism when nobody else is, so he likes to teach in English departments who are interested in pragmatism because philosophers aren't.
That's funny.
And, well, I thought basically that Nelson was making conversation, but he wasn't, and I think
I think we struck it right.
I think he'd had a long week in which he had not been able to do a single thing that he wanted to do.
And I came along, and he thought, if we invite him to come here, maybe this would be a more interesting place as regards books.
And the dean of the faculty now, Nick Nelson's retired, told me at the time, he was then chairman of the history department, Mel Leffler, L-E-F-F-L-E-R, good fellow, who writes on
Nazi Germany won a Bancroft a couple of years ago.
Butler said, you may be interested to know that Ray Nelson consulted all of us chairmen when he proposed to make a new university professor, and it would have been very stupid of him not to, he said.
On the other hand, he said, it would have been very stupid of us not to agree.
But there are only all of us.
I think there are only two
university professors in the humanities who teach.
There are some others who used to teach, but they're now administrator types.
I think there are about a dozen at the university in all.
And most of those are in the professional schools because the law school has so much money and power that what else have they got to offer anybody?
As a university professor, I have no fixed duties.
I teach what I want to.
I get a sabbatical every three and a half years instead of after every seven, which is meaningless to me.
I can't take sabbatical, so I ain't got a house to run.
But nobody's counting, that's for sure.
And they gave me a license to raise money.
I was, I'm sorry, coffee?
Almost.
You get a class, you know.
Learn.